OF THOUSANDS BREATHED NEW LIFE
INTO A CENTURY-OLD TRADITION
TODAY, BRAVING THE LONG TREK TO
THE BOSTON MARATHON FINISH LINE
THAT WAS THE SCENE OF TRAGEDY
JUST ONE YEAR AGO.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
ALSO AHEAD THIS MONDAY, THE
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT WILL MAKE IT
EASIER FOR PRISONERS SERVING
TIME FOR NON-VIOLENT DRUG
OFFENSES TO RECEIVE CLEMENCY,
PART OF A BROADER PUSH BY THE
OBAMA ADMINISTRATION TO CHANGE
DRUG SENTENCES.
>> Woodruff: PLUS, OUR
CONVERSATION WITH FORMER SUPREME
COURT JUSTICE, JOHN PAUL
STEVENS.
WHY HE'S PUSHING FOR CHANGES TO
OUR CONSTITUTION, ON
REDISTRICTING, THE DEATH
PENALTY, AND GUNS.
>> THE EFFECT OF THE SECOND
AMENDMENT AS IT'S NOW CONSTRUED
IS TO MAKE FEDERAL JUDGES THE
FINAL ARBITERS OF GUN POLICY,
WHICH IS QUITE, QUITE WRONG
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE JUST SOME
OF THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S "PBS NEWSHOUR."
>> Ifill: U.S. DRONES WERE BACK
IN ACTION OVER YEMEN TODAY,
AFTER A WEEKEND OF HEAVY STRIKES
AIMED AT AL-QAEDA.
THE GOVERNMENT OF YEMEN
ANNOUNCED THE ATTACKS HAVE
KILLED AT LEAST 55  MILITANTS,
INCLUDING THREE SENIOR MEMBERS.
THE MAIN TARGET WAS A MAJOR
TRAINING CAMP IN THE COUNTRY'S
MOUNTAINOUS SOUTH.
ATTACKS IN TOWNS JUST OUTSIDE
BAGHDAD KILLED AT LEAST 33
IRAQIS AND WOUNDED NEARLY 80
TODAY.
IN ONE INCIDENT, BULLDOZERS HAD
TO CLEAR BURNED-OUT WRECKAGE
AFTER A SUICIDE CAR BOMBER
STRUCK A POLICE CHECKPOINT 25
MILES SOUTH OF THE CAPITAL.
FIVE POLICEMEN AND SEVEN
CIVILIANS WERE KILLED THERE.
IN SYRIA, THE GOVERNMENT SET A
DATE TO HOLD PRESIDENTIAL
ELECTIONS: JUNE 3.
INCUMBENT PRESIDENT BASHAR AL
ASSAD IS EXPECTED TO WIN A NEW,
SEVEN-YEAR TERM, BUT THE
OPPOSITION DISMISSED ANY
ELECTION AS A FARCE.
AND ON TWITTER, A U.S. STATE
DEPARTMENT SPOKESMAN SAID THE
VOTE WOULD BE A "PARODY OF
DEMOCRACY."
THE CONFIRMED DEATH TOLL IN THE
SOUTH KOREA FERRY DISASTER HAS
REACHED 86.
DIVERS RECOVERED MORE BODIES
FROM INSIDE THE SUNKEN VESSEL
TODAY.
ANOTHER 220 PEOPLE WERE STILL
LISTED AS MISSING.
THIS REPORT COMES FROM JANE
DODGE OF INDEPENDENT TELEVISION
NEWS.
>> THE SAME CAPTAIN, THE
SAME ROUTE.
THIS TRIP WAS FILMED A FEW
YEARS AGO.
THE CAPTAIN'S ADVICE NOW
BRUTALLY IRONIC.
>> AS LONG AS YOU FOLLOW THE
DIRECTIONS GIVEN BY OUR CREW
MEMBERS, I BELIEVE THE FERRY
IS SAFER THAN ANY OTHER FORM
OF TRANSPORT.
>> Reporter: THESE
PASSENGERS ON THE SEWOL
DIDN'T DO WHAT THEY WERE
TOLD IT SAVED THEIR LIVES,
MANY MORE STAYED BELOW DECK
AS INSTRUCTED AND BROWNED.
NEW FOOTAGE SHOWS THE
CAPTAIN BEING TREATED AFTER
ABANDONING HIS SHIP.
ACCORDING TO THE DOCTOR WHO
SAW HIM, HE DIDN'T DISCLOSE
HIS TRUE IDENTITY.
>> I DIDN'T ASK HIM DIRECTLY
BUT I REMEMBER SEEING A LIST
STATING HE WAS PASSENGER.
I THINK HE SAID SO WHEN HE
WAS QUESTIONED.
WE WEREN'T TOLD HE WAS THE
CAPTAIN.
AND WE NEVER THOUGHT HE WAS.
>> Reporter: CONDEMNATION
FROM THE COUNTRY'S PRESIDENT
COULDN'T HAVE BEEN STRONGER.
>> THE CONDUCT OF THE
CAPTAIN AND SOME CREW
MEMBERS IS UNBE FATHOMABLE
FROM THE VIEWPOINT OF COMMON
SENSE AND IT WAS LIKE AN ACT
OF MURDER THAT CANNOT AND
SHOULD NOT BE TOLERATED.
>> THE SEWOL BOUGHT FROM THE
JAPANESE BY SOUTH CORE YEN
COMPANY IS 20 YEARS OLD.
THE KOREAN TV CHANNEL HAS
CLAIMED THE FERRY NEARLY
CAPSIZED LAST MAY.
THE FERRY OWNER HAS INSISTED
THE VESSEL WAS INSPECTED
RECENTLY AND PASSED SAFETY
CHECKS.
BUT THIS NATIONAL DISASTER
HAS BECOME A TEST OF THE
PRESIDENT'S LEADERSHIP.
AND PARENTS LIKE IM SEON MI
WHOSE DAUGHTER IS STILL
MISSING SAID THE RESCUE
RAISE HAS BEEN TOO SLOW.
>> THE GOVERNMENT IS JUST
PRETENDING TO WORK BUT IT'S
JUST FOR SHOW AND THE MEDIA
PLAYED A GAME.
THIS IS A 100% MAN-MADE
DISASTER.
IF THE GOVERNMENT HAD ACTED
QUICKER ALL THE CHILDREN
WOULD HAVE BEEN SAVED.
>> THE LAST VISIBLE PATH OF
THE SEWOL DISAPPEARED
UNDERWATER ON FRIDAY.
IN AN ATTEMPT TO KEEP IT
FROM SINKING FURTHER THREE
INFLATABLES HAVE BEEN A
TEACHED TO THE KEEL.
FIVE GUIDE LANES HAVE
BENEFITED TO THE SIGHT TO
HELP DIVERS, MORE THAN 500
ARE INVOLVED.
EACH ONE ONLY ABLE TO STAY
INSIDE THE SHIP FOR 15
MINUTES AT A TIME.
>> THE UNRELENTING NATURE OF
THIS TRAGEDY HAS LEFT EVEN
THE MESSENGERS LOST FOR WORD.
THE COVER OF DARKNESS, NO
MASK FOR THE PROCESSION OF
BODIES THAT JUST KEEP COMING.
>> Ifill: A HIGH-RANKING SOUTH
KOREAN OFFICIAL WAS FORCED OUT
TODAY, AFTER HE TOOK A SOUVENIR
PHOTO AT THE RESCUE OPERATIONS
CENTER.
THE INCIDENT INFURIATED THE
VICTIMS' RELATIVES.
AN AGREEMENT REACHED LAST WEEK
IN GENEVA SHOWED NO SIGN OF
DEFUSING TENSIONS IN UKRAINE
TODAY.
INSTEAD, PRO-MOSCOW SEPARATISTS
STILL REFUSED TO GIVE UP THEIR
OCCUPATION OF GOVERNMENT
BUILDINGS IN THE EAST.
MEANWHILE, VICE PRESIDENT JOE
BIDEN ARRIVED IN KIEV.
HE'S EXPECTED TO ANNOUNCE A
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PACKAGE FOR
THE UKRAINIAN GOVERNMENT.
MAZDA IS THE LATEST AUTO MAKER
TO ANNOUNCED A MAJOR RECALL.
THE JAPANESE CAR COMPANY TODAY
PULLED BACK MORE THAN
100,000 TRIBUTE SPORT UTILITY
VEHICLES.
PARTS OF THEIR FRAMES MAY BE
PRONE TO CORROSION THAT COULD
INTERFERE WITH STEERING.
THE VEHICLES WERE MADE FROM
MODEL YEARS 2001 TO 2004.
THOUSANDS OF CHILDREN AND THEIR
PARENTS DESCENDED ON THE SOUTH
LAWN OF THE WHITE HOUSE TODAY
FOR THE ANNUAL EASTER EGG ROLL.
THE PRESIDENT AND FIRST LADY
PRESIDED, ALONGSIDE A GIANT
BUNNY.
AND MRS. OBAMA USED THE DAY TO
PROMOTE HER HEALTHY EATING AND
EXERCISE CAMPAIGN.
>> WE LOVE THIS EVENT.
THIS IS THE LARGEST EVENT THAT
WE DO ON THE SOUTH LAWN, WE HAVE
MORE THAN 30,000 PEOPLE ON THE
LAWN TODAY AND WE'RE JUST
THRILLED THAT THIS THEME IS
FOCUSING ON AN ISSUE NEAR AND
DEAR TO MY HEART, AND IT'S
MAKING SURE OUR YOUNG PEOPLE ARE
ACTIVE AND HEALTHY.
>> Ifill: THE OBAMAS OVERSAW THE
136TH EGG ROLL ON THE LAWN.
THE PRESIDENT ALSO GAVE HIS
ANNUAL READING FROM THE MAURICE
SENDAK CHILDREN'S BOOK, "WHERE
THE WILD THINGS ARE."
WALL STREET STARTED THE WEEK
WITH MODEST GAINS.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
PICKED UP 40 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
16,449.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 26 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 4,121.
AND THE S-AND-P 500 ADDED 7 TO
FINISH NEAR 1,872.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUr:
THE BOSTON MARATHON RETURNS IN A
AND RESILIENCE; THE JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT'S MOVE TO EXPAND
CLEMENCY FOR FEDERAL DRUG
OFFENDERS; HOW ONE OF THE
SUPREME COURT'S FORMER STALWARTS
WOULD CHANGE THE CONSTITUTION;
THE BREWING FIGHT OVER VOTING
RIGHTS; PLUS, REMEMBERING A
PRIZEFIGHTER FORCED TO BATTLE
FOR HIS OWN FREEDOM.
AND 19 MINUTES.
>> Woodruff: GIVEN THE
ANNIVERSARY, THE RAMPED-UP
SECURITY AND THE RUNNING
RECORDS, IT WAS INDEED A
MEMORABLE PATRIOTS DAY IN
BOSTON.
WE CHECK IN WITH TWO WHO WERE
OUT THERE FOR IT.
MARIA CRAMER OF THE BOSTON
GLOBE.
SHE JOINS US THIS EVENING FROM
THE BOSTON COMMON.
AND ADAM REILLY OF W.G.B.H.
PUBLIC TV IN BOSTON.
MARIA CRAMER, HOW DID THE
DAY GO OVERALL?
WHAT WOULD YOU SAY?
>> IT WAS, I MEAN THERE WERE
SO MANY POLICE OFFICERS OUT
THERE I WOULD HAVE TO SAY IT
WAS VERY CALM.
THE CROWDS WERE VERY WELL
BEHAVED.
THEY LISTENED TO THE
INSTRUCTIONS WHICH WERE
DON'T COME IN WITH
BACKPACKS.
PLEASE ABIDE BY THESE RULES
AND THE DAY SHOULD GO PRETTY
WELL.
AND IN BOSTON SO FAR FROM
WHAT I HEAR THERE IS ONLY
ONE ARREST FOR DISORDERLY
CONDUCT.
IT LOOKS LIKE IT'S BEEN A
SUCCESSFUL DAY IN TERMS OF
SECURITY.
>> Woodruff: ADAM REILLY WA,
DID WOULD YOU ADD, HOW DID
YOU FEEL WENT.
>> I WOULD ECHO THE POINT
MARIA MADE.
THE MOOD IN COPLEY SQUARE
WHERE I WAS RIGHT BY THE
FINISH LINE, THE MOOD WAS
EXTREMELY RELAXED.
I TRIED TO FIND PEOPLE WHO
MIGHT TAKE ISSUE WITH THE
ENHANCED SECURITY.
AND I WASN'T ABLE TO FIND
ANYONE.
MUCH LIKE THE PEOPLE YOU
QUOTED IN YOUR SETTUP PIECE,
PEOPLE BASICALLY SAID TO ME
THIS IS PROBABLY THE SINGLESAFEY
OR MAYBE ON THE PLANET RIGHT
NOW.
AND IF THIS IS THE PRICE WE
HAVE TO PAY TO FEEL SAFE AND
TO BE ABLE TO CONDUCT
MARATHON A YEAR AFTER WHAT
HAPPENED, WE'RE FINE WITH
IT.
SO VERY RELAXED.
AND IT WAS INTERESTING.
THE ENHANCED SECURITY
SOMETIMES THINGS LIKE
PRESIDENTIAL NOMINATING
CONVENTIONS, YOU WILL DETECT
A LITTLE ANIMOSITY BETWEEN
SAY MEMBERS OF THE MEDIA AND
SECURITYRS OR
SECURITY PERSONNEL SORT OF
WEAR THEIR AUTHORITY HEAVILY,
AT LEAST WHICH WAS THAT WAS
NOT THE CASE TODAY IT WAS
VERY LOW KEY.
I THINK PROBABLY MORE
EFFECTIVE AS A RESULT.
>> Woodruff: MARIA WHAT DID
YOU FEEL, SEE THAT WAS
DIFFERENT ABOUT SECURITY
THIS YEAR.
WHAT WAS VISIBLE THAT WAS
DIFFERENT?
>> THERE WERE A LOT MORE
DOGS.
AND THERE WERE STREETS THAT
WERE CLOSED THAT ARE
NORMALLY NOT CLOSED.
AND BOILSTON STREET WHICH IS
A STREET WHERE PEOPLE CAN GO
BACK AND FORTH VERY EASILY
THAT HAVE A LOT OF FRO DOM
AND ACCESSAT AREA,
THAT WAS CLOSED BY NOON.
NO MORE PEDESTRIANS WERE
ALLOWED ON TO THAT STREET.
TO THE ANNOYANCE OF SOME
PEOPLE WHO WERE TRYING TO
GET ON FROM NEARBY NEWBURY
STREET.
LIKE ADAM STATE, MOST PEOPLE
UNDERSTOOD THIS IS WHAT IT
HAS TO BE LIKE.
SO IT WAS VERY, VERY TIGHT
IN TERMS OF WHERE YOU COULD
WALK.
THAT'S NOT THE KIND OF
MARATHON MOST PEOPLE IN
BOSTON ARE USED TO.
AND I DONE KNOW IF THAT'S
WHAT IS IS GOING TO LOOK
LIKE NEXT YEAR.
IT WILL BE INTERESTING TO
SEE IF THEY REPLICATE THIS.
BUT I THINK THE POLICE
REALLY FEEL LIKE THIS WAS
THE WAY TO HANDLE IT AND
MOST SPECTATORS AGREED WITH
THEM.
>> MARIA --
>> ADAM, GO AHEAD.
>> I'M SORRY FOR JUMPING IN.
I WAS GOING UNDERSCORE, TO
HAVE BOILSTON STREET CLOSED
OFF I BELIEVE FROM THE
BOSTON PUBLIC GARDEN TO
MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE, THAT'S
A BIG DEAL.
I WAS TRYING TO CONNECT WITH
MY CAMERAMAN EARLIER THIS
MORNING.
AND IT TOOK ME A GOOD 45
MINUTES TO BASICALLY DO THE
EQUIVALENT OF CROSSING A
STREET IN TWO MINUTES.
NOW THAT'S NOT A BIG DEAL
BECAUSE IT WAS AN
INCONVENIENCE FOR ME.
BUT AS MARIA MENTIONED, I
THINK A LOT OF SPECTATORS
WERE KIND OF THROWN.
THERE WERE TIMES WHEN IT WAS
A LITTLE UNCLEAR ABOUT HOW
YOU WERE SUPPOSED TO GET
FROM POINT A TO POINT B.
BUT AGAIN GENERAL ACCEPT
AN-- ACCEPTANCE WAS THE
RULE.
>> MARIA, YOU GO AHEAD.
I WANT TO HEAR WHAT YOU HAVE
TO SAY.
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, I WAS
GOING TO SAY EXACTLY WHAT
ADAM SAID.
BASICALLY PEOPLE, THEY HAVE
BEEN ADVERTISING FOR A WHILE,
THE POLICE HAVE BEEN PRETTY
VOCAL ABOUT WHAT THEY WERE
GOING TO DO, ESPECIALLY IN
BOSTON WHERE THE MARATHON
STRUCK-- EXCUSE ME WHERE THE
BOMB STRUCK LAST YEAR.
THEY TOLD PEOPLE, YOU KNOW,
BE PREPARED FOR THIS.
SO PEOPLE WEREN'T PREPARED,
MANY OF THEM WERE PERPLEXED
AND CURSING UNDER THEIR
BREATH A COUPLE OF TIMES.
SO YOU KNOW, YOU HAD SOME
SURPRISE ON THAT LEVEL.
AND IT WAS CONFUSING.
BUT THE GOAL WAS TO HAVE A
FEW PEOPLE ON BOILSTON AS
POSSIBLE SO THAT POLICE AND
ANTI-CRIME UNITS, PLAIN
CLOTHES OFFICER KOS MOVE
AROUND AND THAT IS WHAT THEY
SEEM TO HAVE ACCOMPLISHED.
>> MARIA, DID YOU SENSE
THERE WAS AN EFFECT ON THE
RUNNERS THEMSELVES IT?
I KNOW THERE WERE WHAT,
9,000 MORE THAN LAST YEAR.
>> I THINK IN A WAY THERE
WAS BECAUSE THE CROWDS ARE
USUALLY A LITTLE THICKER
ALONG BOILSTON STREET.
YOU SAW SOME RUNNERS SORT OF
THROWING THEIR HANDS UP
TRYING TO GET THE TEARS AND
THE SCREAMS TO BE A LITTLE
LOUDERMENT AND I WAS ASKING
TER YEAR, YEAH, WHO COME
USUALLY YOU HAVE MORE PEOPLE
ALONG BOILSTON STREET, THEY
SAID IT SEEMS LIKE PEOPLE
ARE MORE SUBDUED AND I DON'T
FLOW IF IT IS BECAUSE THEY
ARE LOOKING FOR THINGS F
THEY ARE LOOKING ON THE
STREET TO SEE IF ANY BAGS
HAVE BEEN LEFT BEHIND, IF
THERE WAS ANY FEAR.
SO THERE WAS A CALMNESS TO
THIS MARATHON THAT YOU
NORMALLY DON'T SEE IT IS
NORMALLY A MUCH ROWDIER
EVENT.
AND I THINK THERE WAS A SORT
OF FEELING OF LET'S JUST SEE
IF EVERYTHING'S OKAY.
>> Woodruff: ADAM --
>> BEFORE WE GET TOO EXCITED.
>>IT IS INTERESTING THAT
MARIA SAID THAT, I HAD HEARD
SOMETHING DIFFERENT FROM A
COUPLE RUNNERS AT THE FINISH
LINE.
HI ONE WOMAN TELL ME THAT
THE CROWD, WHICH IS KNOWN
FOR BEING AN INCREDIBLY
SUPPORTIVE CROWD THAT IT WAS
SORT OF EVEN MORE PASSIONATE
AND SUPPORTIVE THIS YEAR
THAN IN PREVIOUS YEARS.
BUT THAT JUST GOES TO SHOW
YOU THAT THESE THINGS ARE
SUBJECTIVE.
I THINK THAT A LOT OF THE
RUNNERS I TALKED TO DECIDED
THAT THEY WERE GOING TO RUN
BECAUSE OF WHAT HAPPENED
LAST YEAR.
THAT WAS WHY THEY WERE HERE
TODAY.
OR A BIG PART OF THE REASON.
BUT THEY ALSO TOLD ME THAT
ONCE THE RACE BEGAN, BY AND
LARGE THEY PUT THE FEARS OUT
OF THEIR MIND.
>> Woodruff: AND ADAM, IS
IT-- DID YOU GET A SENSE
FROM PEOPLE THAT THEY HOPEDHIS Y
IS NOT THERE INDEFINITELY?
>> I DID NOT HEAR THAT FROM
A SINGLE SPECTATOR OR A
SINGLE PARTICIPANT.
BUT IT WILL BE REALLY
INTERESTING TO SEE MARIA
MENTIONED WHAT SUBSEQUENT
MARATHONS ARE GOING TO LOOK
LIKE.
I THINK THAT IS THE HUGE
UNANSWERED QUESTION.
THE SECURITY GOING TO BECOME
STANDARD IS THERE GOING TO
BECOME A POINT AFTER WHICH
PEOPLE START TO CHAFE AT
THIS.
THIS YEAR, EVERYBODY WAS A
LITTLE BIT ANXIOUS EVEN
THOUGH WE ALL ASSUMED IT WAS
A SAFE EVENT, I THINK THERE
WAS STILL SORT OF A
COLLECTIVE SIGH OF RELIEF
WHEN IT ENDED WITHOUT
ANYTHING WEIRD OR UNPLEASANT
HAPPENING.
TWOIERS FROM NOW, PHOTOGRAPH
YEARS FROM NOW, 10 YEARS
FROM NOW, THAT DISCUSSION
MAY BE DIFFERENT.
>> ADAM RILEY, WGBH, MARIA
CRAMER OF THE "BOSTON GLOBE"
JOINING US, THANK YOU FROM
THE BOSTON COMMONS.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT
ANNOUNCED TODAY IT WOULD EXPAND
THE CRITERIA USED TO DECIDE
WHICH DRUG OFFENDERS ARE
ELIGIBLE FOR PRESIDENTIAL
CLEMENCY.
HUNDREDS, IF NOT THOUSANDS, OF
INMATES COULD QUALIFY FOR
SUSPENDED SENTENCES.
IN A VIDEO RELEASED ONLINE,
ATTORNEY GENERAL ERIC HOLDER
SAID MORE DETAILS WOULD BE
ANNOUNCED LATER THIS WEEK.
>> THEY WENT INTO EFFECT, WE
EXPECT TO RECEIVE THOUSANDS
OF ADDITIONAL APPLICATION
FOR CLEMENCY.
WITH THE DEPARTMENT OF
JUSTICE WILL MEET THIS NEED
BY ASSIGNING POTENTIALLY
DOZENS OF LAWYERS WITH
IN BOTH
PROSECUTION AND DEFENSE TO
REVIEW APPLICATIONS AND
PROVIDE THE SCRUTINY THAT
ALL CLEMENCY APPLICATION
REQUIRE.
>> Ifill: JEFFREY BROWN
PICKS UP THE STORY FROM
THERE.
>> Brown: WE LOOK AT THE NEW
GUIDELINES WITH BILL
McCOLLUM, FORMER ATTORNEY
GENERAL FROM FLORIDA
AND-- HE IS NOW A LAWYER IN
PRIVATE PRACTICE IN
WASHINGTON AND VANITA GUPTA
OF AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES
UNIT AND FROM THE ACLU
CENTER FOR JUSTICE, WHAT IS
THE PROBLEM ADDRESSED HERE
BY THE PRESIDENT AND
ATTORNEY GENERAL HOLDER.
>> SURE, WELL, VINCE 1980
OUR FEDERAL PRISON SYSTEM
HAS GROWN BY ABOUT 800%.
AND ABOUT HALF ARE SERVING
TIME FOR DRUG OFFENSES.
THE ATTORNEY GENERAL PUT IT
BER OUR
NATION'S TOP LAW ENFORCEMENT
FERR, BACK IN AUGUST, WHEN
HE SAID TOO MANY PEOPLE ARE
SERVING TOO MUCH TIME IN OUR
FEDERAL PRISON SYSTEM FOR
LOW-LEVEL O FEBRUARY-- OFFENSES.
IT'S COMING AT A HUGE COST
TO TAXPAYERS.
THE FEDERAL PRISON SYSTEM
RIGHT NOW IS ABOUT 35 TO 40%
OVERCROWD.
AND IT'S OVER 70% OFS THIS
SERVING NAME OUR FEDERAL PLI
SONS ARE BLACK AND HISPANIC.
THE FEDERAL PRISON SYSTEM
HAS BEEN RACIALLY
DISPROPORTIONATE IN ITS
IMPACT SO THIS IS PART OF
THE PROBLEM THAT THE
ATTORNEY GENERAL IS SEEKING
TO SOLVE.
>> Brown: BILL McCOLLUM, DO
AGREE THERE IS A PROBLEM AND
IF SO, IS THIS ITS RIGHT
APPROACH TOX EXPAND THE
NUMBER OF CLEMENCIS?
>> I THINK CLEMENCY IS IN
ORDER FOR CERTAIN CASES
RIGHT NOW THAT HAS NOT BEEN
DONE IN THE PAST.
I THINK THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT MORE THAN THE
STATES WHERE I SERVED ON
FLORIDA'S CLEMENCY BOARD FOR
A NUMBER OF YEARS AS
ATTORNEY GENERAL.
IN THE FEDERAL AREA THEY'VE
HAD VERY FEW.
THE PRESIDENT HASN'T
PARDONED VERY MANY PEOPLE,
HAVEN'T HAD VERY MANY COME
OUTATION OF SENTENCES AND
THE SENTENCES IN THE PAST
HAVE LEAD TO CERTAIN CASES
WHICH REALLY DO NEED TO BE
ADDRESSED, WHERE PEOPLE WERE
OVERSENTENCED IN 2010 THOSE
SENTENCING GOID LINES WERE
REDUCED SIGNIFICANTLY,
ESPECIALLY IN THE DRUG AREA.
AND IF THE PROCEDURES THAT
THE ATTORNEY GENERAL IS
GOING TO FOLLOW WILL INDEED
TRACK THOSE CHANGES, AND LET
SOME PEOPLE OUT OF PRISON
WHO HAVE BEEN IN THERE A
LONG TIME THAT SHOULDN'T BE
THERE, THEN I'M ALL FOR IT
ON THE OTHER HAND I DON'T
WANT ANYBODY TO BE LEFT WAY
FALSE IMPRESSION THERE ARE
PEOPLE WHO COMMIT VERY
SER CRIMES,
TRAFFICKING IN LARGE
QUANTITIES OF DRUGS.
AND IF YOU TRAFFIC IN ENOUGH
HAIR WINN, COCAINE, ARE YOU
KILLING A-- HEROIN AND
COCAINE ARE YOU KILLING A
LOT OF PEOPLE.
AND THE MANDATORY SENTENCING
IS VALID FOR YOU AND
YOU HAVEN'T HAVE YOUR
SENTENCE COMMUTED.
SO I BELIEVE THAT PROBABLY
ATTORNEY GENERAL HOLDER WILL
DO THE RIGHT THING BUT WE
HAVE TO WAIT AND SEE.
>> Brown: VANITA GUPTA, THAT
REALLY IS THE QUESTION OF
THE CRITERIA HERE.
WHAT IS USED, WHAT SHOULD BE
USED TO DECIDE WHO IS
ELIGIBLE?
>> SURE, THE ATTORNEY
GENERAL'S ANNOUNCEMENT TODAY
FOLLOWS AN ANNOUNCEMENT BY
THE DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL
BACK IN FEBRUARY WHO SAID
THAT THEY WERE SEEKING
INCREASED COMMUTATIONS FOR
PEOPLE SERVING VERY LONG
SENTENCES FOR LOW LEVEL
CRIME WITH GOOD PRISON TIME,
IT WILL BE A VERY HIGHLY
SCREENED SCRUTINIZED PROCESS
TO SELECT THE RIGHT NUMBER
OF PEOPLE.
UNFORTUNATELY N OUR FEDERAL
SYSTEM THERE ARE HUNDREDS IF
NOT THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE WHO
ACTUALLY FIT THAT CRITERIA.
AND SO THERE IS NO SHORTAGE
BUT IT IS A VERY SELECT
GROUP OF PEOPLE THAT THE
ATTORNEY GENERAL IS
TARGETING FOR COMMUTATION
ON.
>> Brown: BILL McCOLLUM WHAT
CONCERNS YOU, I GUESS, AS
YOU LOOK AT THOSE NUMBERS.
BECAUSE THEY DO USE-- THEY
DO TALK ABOUT USING-- LOOKING
AT PEOPLE FOR NONVIOLENT
CRIMES.
>> WELL, NONVIOLENT CAN
INCLUDE A DRUG TRAFFICKER
WHO IS NOT USED A GUN OR A
KNIFE OR ANYTHING.
IF YOU ARE A DRUG SMUGGLER
AND YOU ARE SHIPPING LARGE
GAUNTS-- QUANTITIES, A KILO
OF HEROIN, 5 KILOS OF
COCAINE, SOME HUGE
QUANTITIES AND THOSE ARE
HUGE QUANTITIES OF THE DRUGS
IN THE UNITED STATES AND
DISTRIBUTING THEM, THEN YOU
MAY BE DOING IT WITHOUT
VIOLENCE.
AND YOU HAVE GOT TO TAKE
THAT INTO ACCOUNT.
IT'S NOT JUST A QUESTION OF
VIOLENCE.
IT'S A QUESTION OF QUANTITY
AND WHETHER YOU ARE A DEALER
OR WHETHER WHETHER YOU ARE A
MULE AS THEY USED TO CALL IT
WHEN I WAS IN CONGRESS AND
CHAIRING THE SUBCOMMITTEE ON
CRIME.
YOU ARE JUST GOING ALONG AS
I SIDE PLAYER, OR MAYBE YOU
GOT CAUGHT UP AS THE
GIRLFRIEND AS SOME CASES
DEMONSTRATED OF A DRUG
DEALER AND YOU DIDN'T TURN
STATES EVIDENCE SO THE
PROSECUTOR DECIDED THEY WERE
GOING TO THROW THE BOOK AT
YOU.
THOSE KIND OF CASE DOES NEED
TO BE ADDRESSED.
BUT THE MAJOR DRUG
TRAFFICKERS SHOULDN'T.
AND THE OTHER THING ABOUT
THE FEDERAL SYSTEM, IT'S
VERY IMPORTANT, IT'S NOT
ADDRESSED REALLY AT ALL.
MANY STATES IT ISN'T EITHER.
AND THAT'S REHABILITATION,
GETTING PRISONERS READY TO
GO BACK OUT AGAIN INTO THE
STREETS.
AND GIVING THEM JOB SKILLS.
GIVING THEM TRAINING.
SOMETHING THAT I HAVE LONG
ADVO CADE.
AND IT JUST IS HEARING, YOU
KNOW, FALLING ON DEAF EARS
MANY TIMES IN THE FEDERAL
PRISON SYSTEM.
SO THE RETURN TO PRISON RATE
IS VERY HIGH.
AND IF WE TAKE A LOT OF
THESE FOLKS AND PUT THEM OUT
ON THE STREETS THEN MY
CONCERN IN PART IS GOING TO
BE IF THEY DON'T HAVE THIS
JUST RIGHT, YOU'RE GOING SEE
PEOPLE RETURNING TO PRISON,
COMMITTING OTHER CRIMES AND
THEN RETURNING TO PRISON, IT
IS A PUBLIC SAFETY ISSUE
THEN.
>> DO YOU WANT TO RESPOND TO
THAT?
>> I THINK THE-- DEPARTMENT
OF JUSTICE WILL BE CAREFULLY
SCRUTINIZING THE KINDS OF
PETITIONS THAT MR. McCOLLUM
JUST SPOKE ABOUT.
>> Brown: THEY DID SAY THEY
WILL PUT MORE ATTORNEYS
ASSIGNED TO T
WHICH MEANS THE USE OF
RESOURCES WHICH IS ANOTHER
ISSUE.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
THEY'RE GOING TO HAVE TO.
BECAUSE THE RESPONSE IS
GOING TO BE OVERWHELMING.
BUT YOU KNOW, THE REALITY IS
MANDATORY SENTENCING HAS
COMPLETELY HAMSTRUNG THE
FEDERAL SYSTEM.
FEDERAL JUDGES HAVE BEEN
UNABLE TO DO THEIR JOBS IN
YSTEM.
AND THERE IS A REAL NEED FOR
REFORM SO WHILE WE ARE VERY
EAGERLY ANTICIPATING A VERY
ROBUST GREENING AND
SCRUTINIZING PROCESS IN THIS
CLEMENCY ANNOUNCEMENT TODAY,
THE REALITY IS WE NEED TO
ACTUALLY SEE ACTION FROM
CONGRESS.
AND SEE CONGRESS ENACT THE
SMARTER SENTENCING ACT TO
REALLY KIND OF ENACT THE
KINDS OF REFORMS THAT WE'RE
SEEING TAKE PLACE IN RED AND
BLUE STATES AROUND THE
COUNTRY, REFORMING MANDATORY
MINIMUM SENTENCING LIEUS AND
KEEPING CRIME RATES ON THE
DECLINE.
SO THAT'S GOING TO
NECESSARILY BE A PART OF THE
EFFORT ON CRIMINAL JUSTICE
REFORM FOR THE NEXT FEW
YEARS.
>> WHAT, DO YOU HAVE A SENSE
NOW OF THE IMPACT OF THIS
STEP.
I MEAN WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE
POTENTIALLY OUT THERE.
>> WELL, I WORRY ABOUT THE
NUMBERS.
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE TO WAIT
AND SEE.
BUT WHAT I AM CONCERNED
ABOUT IS WHAT I JUST HEARD
HER SAY AND THAT IS THE IDEA
THAT YOU CAN TAKE THIS
EXAMPLE AND SUDDENLY SAY
MANDATORY SENTENCES ALL
TOGETHER OUGHT TO BE DONE
AWAY WITH AND JUDGES SHOULD
HAVE DISCRETION THAX IS
WHERE WE WERE IN THE 80s AND
90s WHEN WE PUT THESE IN
PLACE.
AND WE WERE GETTING WIDELY
DISPARATE SENTENCES,
DIFFERENT SENTENCES IN THE
FEDERAL SYSTEM JUDGES AND
HOW THEY SEN TENSD.
HOW I THINK THERE HAVE BEEN
ABUSES AND SOME STATUTES
NEED TO BE ADJUSTED.
THE IDEA OF DOING AWAY ALL
TOGETHER OF MANDATORY
SENTENCING FOR MAJOR
TRAFFICKERS OR FOR PEOPLE
WHO COMMIT CRIMES WITH GUNS
LIKE IN MY HOME STATE WHERE
THERE IS A 10-20 LIFE
PRECISION FOR USING A GUN OR
COMMITTING, FIRING THE GUN
IN THE COMMISSION OF A CRIME,
THINK THINK IT WOULD BE A
BIG MISTAKE TO DO AWAY WITH
THOSE.
WE DON'T NEED TO GO BACK TO
THAT SYSTEM THAT FAILED
BEFORE.
WE NEED DETERMINATE
SENTENCING WHERE WE CAN AND
ADJUST IT SO WE DON'T HAVE
HARSH AND WRONG OUTCOMESMENT
AND USE THE CLEMENCY LAWS
WHERE IT IS APPROPRIATE THAT
IS WHY THEY ARE THERE.
>> Brown: VERY BRIEF
RESPONSE.
>> I DON'T THINK THAT WE'RE
ACTUALLY THAT FAR OFF.
THE REFORMS THAT ARE ON THE
TABLE REALLY APPLY TO
NONVIOLENT OFFENSES AND THAT
IS WHERE JUDGES NEED TO HAVE
MORE DISCRETION TO BE ABLE
TO TAILOR SENTENCES IN
NONVIOLENT DRUG CASES.
>> Brown: OKAY, WE WILL
WATCH THE NEXT STEP, VANITA
GUPTA, AND BILL McCULLUM,
THANKS VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: NOW, A FORMER
SUPREME COURT JUSTICE TAKES ON
THE U.S. CONSTITUTION AND THE
COURT HE STEPPED AWAY FROM.
JOHN PAUL STEVENS WAS KNOWN IN
HIS 35 YEARS IN OFFICE FOR VIEWS
THAT EVOLVED FROM THE TIME HE
WAS APPOINTED BY REPUBLICAN
PRESIDENT GERALD FORD, TO ONE OF
UTSPOKEN
LIBERAL VOICES.
TODAY, FOUR YEARS AFTER
RETIRING, THE 94-YEAR-OLD
CONTINUES TO MAKE WAVES, WITH AN
AMBITIOUS NEW BOOK, CALLING FOR
IT'S TITLED, "SIX AMENDMENTS:
HOW AND WHY WE SHOULD CHANGE THE
CONSTITUTION."
I TALKED TO HIM LAST WEEK IN HIS
CHAMBERS AT THE SUPREME COURT.
JUST FIS JOHN PAUL STEVENS,
THANK YOU FOR TALKING WITH
US.
>> I'M HAPPY TO BE HERE.
>> Woodruff: YOU'RE ASKING
TO AMEND THE CONSTITUTION
SIX DIFFERENT WAYS.
HOW PRACTICAL IS THAT?
>> WELL, IT CERTAINLY WOULD
TAKE TIME TO DO THAT JOB
COMPLETELY, BUT THERE'S NO
REASON WHY ONE OR TWO AMOUNT
AMENDMENTS MIGHT AN DON'TED
BEFORE THE OTHERS.
AND I THINK THE ISSUES IN
EACH OF THE ONES I DISCUSSED,
ARE SUFFICIENTLY IMPORTANT
THAT IT'S WORTH SPENDING
TIME DEBATING AND THINKING
ABOUT IT.
>> Woodruff: YOU SINGLE OUT
RULES, JUSTICE STEVENS, THAT
WERE HANDED DOWN AS YOU
POINT OUT BY A SLIM MAJORITY
OF THE COURT OVER THE LAST
40 YEARS, THAT YOU SAY AND
I'M QUOTING YOU NOW, HAVE
HAD SUCH A PROFOUND AND
UNFORTUNATE IMPACT ON OUR
BASIC LAW, THAT RESORT TO
THE PROCESS OF AMENDMENT IS
WARRANTED.
YOU'RE ESSENTIALLY TAKING ON
THE MODERN SUPREME COURT.
>> WELL, OF COURSE I'VE BEEN
TRYING TO DO THAT FOR MANY
YEARS.
BUT I THINK THERE WERE
INCORRECT DECISIONS THAT
WERE PROFOUNDLY UNWISE AND
REALLY CONTRARY TO A LOT OF
THINGS THAT OUR COUNTRY
STANDS FOR.
AND I THINK THEY SHOULD BE
CHANGED.
>> YOU'RE SPEAKING IN A MILD
MANNERED WAY, JUSTICE
STEVENS BUT I CAN TELL YOU
FEEL PRETTY STRONGLY ABOUT
THIS.
>> I DO.
NO DOUBT ABOUT THAT.
>> LET'S TALK ABOUT SOME OF
THE WAYS THAT YOU WOULD LIKE
TO SEE THE CONSTITUTION
CHANGED.
AMONG OTHER THINGS, YOU WANT
AN AMENDMENT THAT REQUIRES
THE STATES NOT TO DRAW
LEGISLATIVE OR CONGRESSIONAL
DISTRICTS IN A WAY TO
INCREASE PARTISAN STRENGTH.
WE KNOW CLEARLY THERE IS
PARTISAN REDISTRICTING.
BUT MOST REDISTRICTING IS
DONE AROUND REAL POPULATIONS
LIVE, WHETHER IT'S AN AN
URBAN AREA, SUBURBAN AREA,
WHY ISN'T THIS SOMETHING
THAT IS BETTER LEFT TO THE
POLITICAL PROCESS?
>> WELL, BECAUSE THE
POLITICAL PROCESS HAS
MISFIRED.
AND A NUMBER OF STATES THE
DOMINANT PARTY HAS
REDISTRICTED WITH ITS OWN
OBJECTIVE OF STRENGTHENING
ITS CONTROL OF THE STATE IN
THE FUTURE.
AND CONGRESSIONAL DELEGATION
AT TIME BY DRAWING
BIZARRE DISTRICTS THAT HAVE
NO PURPOSE WHATSOEVER OTHER
THAN TO ENHANCE THE
POLITICAL STRENGTH OF THE
PARTY IN POWER.
NOW IT'S MY VERY PROFOUND
VIEW THAT-- THE PRIMARY DUTY
TO FOLLOW TO MAKE IMPARTIAL
DECISIONS NOT MOTIVATED BY
PERSONAL PROFIT OR PERSONAL
GAIN OR-- JUST TO THE
POLITICAL PARTY OF WHOM,
WHICH HE IS A MEMBER.
>> SO YOU'RE SAYING TAKE IT
OUT OF POLITICS.
>> WELL, NOT ENTIRELY.
BUT DON'T ALLOW DISTRICTS TO
BE DRAWN FOR NO REASON OTHER
THAN POLICE CALL ADVANTAGE.
THERE ARE TIMES WHEN
POLITICAL CONSIDERATION
CONDITIONS TAKEN INTO
ACCOUNT IN MAKING CERTAIN
MINEARY JUSTMENTS.
BUT THE EXAMPLES THAT I
TALKED ABOUT IN THE BOOK,
ARE EXAMPLES OF DISTRICTS
THAT ARE BIZARRE IN SHAPE
AND HAVE OBVIOUSLY NO
JUSTIFICATION OTHER THAN THE
IMPERMISSIBLE JUSTIFICATION
OF PARTISAN ADVANTAGE TO
THOSE WHO DRAFTED THE
DISTRICTS.
>> YOU ALSO WANT TO AMEND
THE CONSTITUTION TO ABOLISH
THE DEATH PENALTY.
PEOPLE WHO HAVE ALWAYS
OPPOSED THE DEATH PENALTY
LAMENT HOW LONG THEY SAY IT
TOOK YOU TO CHANGE YOUR
MIND.
FROM THE TIME YOU CAME ON
THE COURT IN 1975 NUMBER
2008.
WHY DO YOU THINK IT TOOK YOU
AS LONG AS IT DID TO CHANGE
YOUR MIND AND WAS IT FOR
HUMANE REASONS OR
CONSTITUTIONAL REASONS?
>> WELL, I THINK THAT WHAT
HAS HAPPENED IN THE PERIOD
THAT I HAVE BEEN ON THE
COURT IS THAT THE COURT HAS
USED DEATH PENALTY
LITIGATION TO DEVELOP RULES
THAT MAKE CONVICTION MORE
LIKELY THAN IT SHOULD BE.
THAT RULES GOVERNING THE
SELECTION OF THE JURY, FOR
EXAMPLE.
RULES GOVERNING THE
ADMISSIBILITY OF VICTIM
IMPACT EVIDENCE AT THE
PENALTY PHASE OF THE TRIAL.
THOSE RULES HAVE SLABTED THE
OPPORTUNITY FOR JUSTICE-- IN
FAVOR OF THE PROSECUTOR.
AND I THINK IT'S
PARTICULARLY INCORRECT TO DO
IT IN THE CAPITAL CONTEXT
BECAUSE THE COST IS SO HIGH
F YOU MAKE A MISTAKE IN A
CAPITAL CASE THERE IS NO WAY
TO TAKE CARE OF IT LATER ON.
AND THE RISK OF AN INCORRECT
EXECUTION IN ANY CASE TO ME
IS REALLY INTOLERABLE.
AND THE SYSTEM SHOULD NOT
PERMIT THAT POSSIBILITY TO
EXIST.
>> ANOTHER CONTROVERSY
YOU'RE JUMPING RIGHT INTO IS
CAMPAIGN FINANCE.
YOU BELIEVE CONGRESS SHOULD
BE ABLE TO PUT LIMITS ON THE
AMOUNT OF MONEY CANDIDATES
SPEND ON THEIR CAMPAIGNS.
>> YES.
>> AND THAT THE SUPREME
COURT HAS MADE MISTAKES IN
SEVERAL DECISIONS ALLOWING
CORPORATIONS, LABOR UNIONS
TO ADVOCATE AND SPEND MONEY
ON CANDIDATES.
CONSIDERING ALL THE COURT
HAS DONE, JUSTICE STEVENS,
TO OPEN THE DOOR FOR HUGE
NONE TO POUR INTO AMERICAN
POLITICS INCLUDING THE
RECENT McCUTCHEN DECISION
WHAT EFFECT DOES ALL THIS
HAVE ON AMERICAN POLITICS?
>> WELL, I DON'T THINK IT'S
A HEALTHY EFFECT.
AND I THINK IT'S A CHANGE
FROM WHAT THE PEOPLE WHO
FRAME OUR BASIC GOVERNMENT
ENFIGURES.
FOR THE-- AS THE CHIEF
JUSTICE SAID I THINK IN THE
FIRST SENTENCE OF HIS
OPINION IN THE McCUTCHEN
CASE THE OUR DAY THERE IS
NOTHING MORE IMPORTANT THAN
PARTICIPATION IN ELECTING
OUR REPRESENTATIVES.
BUT THE LAW THAT DEVELOPED
IN THAT CASE AND IN A NUMBER
OF OTHER CASES INVOLVED NOT
ELECTING THE REPRESENTATIVES
OF THE PEOPLE WHO VOTED FOR
THEM, BUT ELECTING
REPRESENTATIVES OF-- IN
OTHER JURISDICTIONS WHERE
THE FINANCING IS USED.
IN OTHER WORDS, THAT WAS A
CASE THAT INVOLVED THE RIGHT
OF AN INDIVIDUAL TO SPEND AS
MUCH OF ITS MONEY AS HE
WANTED TO, TO ELECT
REPRESENTIVES OF OTHER
PEOPLE.
HE DIDN'T USE ANY OF THAT
MONEY TO ELECT HIS OWN
REPRESENTATIVES.
AND I THINK THAT'S A
DISPORTION-- DISTORTION OF
THE CONCEPT THAT HE STARTED
WITH MANY, MANY YEARS AGO.
>> THE LAST AREA THAT I WANT
TO ASK YOU ABOUT IS WHAT
THIS COUNTRY SHOULD DO ABOUT
GUNS.
YOU WOULD CHANGE THE WORDING
OF THE SECOND AMENDMENT TO
THE CONSTITUTION TO SAY THE
RIGHT OF PEOPLE TO BEAR ARMS
TO OWN A GUN SHOULD APPLY
ONLY WHEN SERVING IN THE
MILITIA.
IS IT YOUR ULTIMATE HOPE
THAT THERE WOULD BE NO RIGHT
TO OWN A GUN FOR
SELF-DEFENCE.
>> WELL, IT WOULD BE MY
ULTIMATE HOPE THAT
LEGISLATURE WAS DECIDE THE
ISSUE AND NOT BE HAMPERED BY
CONSTITUTIONAL RESTRICTIONS.
BECAUSE CLEARLY LEGISLATORS
ARE IN A MUCH BETTER
POSITION THAN JUDGES ARE TO
DECIDE WHAT COULD BE PER
MISSABLE IN DIFFERENT
CONTEXT.
AND THE EFFECT OF THE SECOND
AMENDMENT AS IT IS NOW
CONSTRUED IS TO MAKE FEDERAL
JUDGES THE FINAL ARBITERS OF
POLICY WHICH IS QUITE WRONG,
I THINK AND QUITE CONTRARY
TO WHAT THE FRAMERS INTENDED
WHEN THEY DRAFTED THE SECOND
AMENDMENT TO PROTECT STATES
FROM THE DANGER THAT A
STRONG FEDERAL ARMED FORCE
WHERE ABLE TO-- THE STATES
OF THEIR OWN MILITIAS.
>> WHEN YOU LOOK AT ALL OF
THESE CHANGES THAT YOU WOULD
LIKE TO SEE IN THE
CONSTITUTION, AND WHETHER
IT'S CAMPAIGN FINANCE,
REDISTRICTING OR SOMETHING
ELSE, DO YOU BELIEVE THE
MORE CONSERVATIVE MEMBERS OF
THE SUPREME COURT HAVE A
PARTISAN AGENDA?
DO YOU THINK THEY ARE
ACTUALLY TRYING TO GET
CONSERVATIVES ELECTED?
>> NO I DON'T THINK SO.
I WOULDN'T QUESTION THEIR
MOTIVES AT ALL.
I THINK THEY HAVE COME TO
THE INCORRECT CONCLUSION BUT
I DO THINK THEY HAVE-- OR
THEY HAVE HAD CHANCES TO
TAKE A DIFFERENT TACT, I
THINK THEY HAVE ACTED
INCREASE CORRECTLY BUT I
WOULD NOT SUGGEST THAT ANY
OF THEM WERE IMPROPERLY
MOTIVATED DO YOU THINK YOU
SHOULD HAVE STAYED ON THE
COURT LONGER.
>> NO F ANYTHING I STAYED ON
TOO LONG.
>> HOW DOES A JUSTICE KNOW
WHEN IT IS THE RIGHT TIME TO, W?
>> WELL N MY FACE I CAN
REMEMBER THE EVENTS THAT
TRIGGERED THE SPECIFIC
DECISION.
-- I ANNOUNCED IT ORALLY AND
STUMBLED IN MY ANNOUNCEMENT.
I HAD A LITTLE DIFFICULTY
EXPRESSING MYSELF THAT THAT
WAS OUT OF CHARACTER, AND I
TOOK THAT AS A WARNING SIGN
THAT MAYBE I HAD BEEN AROUND
LONGER THAN I SHOULD.
JUSTICE JOHN PAUL STEVENS
THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR
TALKING WITH US.
THE BOOK 16th AMENDMENT, HOW
AND WHY WE SHOULD CHANGE THE
CONSTITUTION.
>> THANK YOU IT'S BEEN A
PLEASURE BEING HERE
>> Ifill: THE SUPREME COURT'S
RULINGS CONTINUE TO RESONATE ON
ANY NUMBER OF CRITICAL ISSUES.
AND AS THE MIDTERM ELECTIONS
APPROACH, WE TURN OUR ATTENTION
TONIGHT TO ONE DECISION THAT
D TE IMPACT.
>> Ifill: IN THE NEARLY A YEAR
SINCE THE SUPREME COURT STRUCK
DOWN A KEY PORTION OF THE VOTING
RIGHTS ACT, FIVE STATES HAVE
TIGHTENED ACCESS TO VOTING.
FROM TEXAS TO VIRGINIA, STATE
AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTS HAVE TAKEN
STEPS TO REQUIRE VOTER
IDENTIFICATION, ELIMINATE SAME-
DAY REGISTRATION, AND TO LIMIT
VOTING HOURS AND LOCATIONS.
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION IS NOW
PUSHING BACK, LAUNCHING ITS OWN
INVESTIGATIONS INTO POLLING
PLACE COMPLAINTS.
THE PRESIDENT HIMSELF HAS LED
THE CHARGE, HERE AT THE JOHNSON
LIBRARY IN AUSTIN EARLIER THIS
MONTH.
>> THE STARK, SIMPLE TRUTH IS
THIS: THE RIGHT TO VOTE IS
THREATENED TODAY IN A WAY THAT
IT HAS NOT BEEN SINCE THE VOTING
RIGHTS ACT BECAME LAW NEARLY
FIVE DECADES AGO.
>> Ifill: FORMER PRESIDENT BILL
CLINTON, ALSO SPEAKING AT THE
L.B.J. LIBRARY, SUGGESTED THE
SUPREME COURT DECISION WAS A
SETBACK FOR CIVIL RIGHTS.
ALL OF A SUDDEN THERE ARE
NEW BARRIERS TO VOTE AN
MAKING IT HARDER TO VOTE.
IS THIS WHAT MARTIN LUTHER
KING GAVE HIS LIFE FOR S
THIT LYNDON JOHNSON
EMPLOYED HIS LEGENDARY
SKILLS FOR?
>>
>> Ifill: 11 STATES NOW HAVE
STRICT VOTER I.D. LAWS ON THE
BOOKS.
WHILE SEVEN OTHERS ARE WORKING
TO LOOSEN RESTRICTIONS.
OFFICIALS IN THE AFFECTED STATES
LONG ARGUED THAT JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT SCRUTINY IS NO LONGER
NEEDED, AND A BIGGER THREAT IS
POSED BY PEOPLE WHO ABUSE THE
FRANCHISE BY VOTING UNDER
DUPLICATE NAMES OR AT INCORRECT
LOCATIONS.
PART OF THE BACKDROP IN SENATE
THE DEBATE: WHO VOTES.
NON-WHITES MAKE UP 37% OF THE
U.S. POPULATION.
BUT IN 2012, THEY MADE UP JUST
28 PERCENT OF THE ELECTORATE.
THE PERCENTAGE WAS EVEN LOWER,
23%, DURING THE 2010 MIDTERM
ELECTIONS.
THAT'S THE YEAR REPUBLICANS TOOK
BACK CONTROL OF THE HOUSE.
>> Ifill: WE TAKE A CLOSER LOOK
NOW AT A STATE WHERE THE FIGHT
OVER VOTING LAWS HAS BEEN
GATHERING STEAM, NORTH CAROLINA.
WE GET TWO DIFFERENT VIEWS FROM
REPUBLICAN STATE REPRESENTATIVE
DAVID LEWIS.
AND KAREEM CRAYTON, A PROFESSOR
AT THE U.N.C. SCHOOL OF LAW.
SO SINCE ITS SUPREME
COURT PROFESSOR CRAYTON
RULEDAS JUNE HOW HAVE THINGS
CHANGED IN YOUR HOME STATE.
>> A NUMBER OF THINGS AGOED
FAIRLY QUICKLY AFTER THE
COURT ADOPTED ITS DECISION.
ONE THING WAS, AN OMNIBUS
VOTING BILL WAS ADOPTED THAT
ESSENTIALLY UNDID A LOT OF
THE PROGRESS THAT NORTH
CAROLINA MADE OVER THEAS
DECADE OR SO IN MAKING
VOTING EASIER FOR CITIZENS
TO CAST THE BALLOT.
AND THE OMNIBUS BILL DID
AMONG OTHER THINGS ROLLED
BACK SAME DAY REGISTRATION T
LIMITED THE NUMBER OF DAYS
THAT ONE COULD ACCESS EARLY
VOTING AND MOST SIGNIFICANT
IN WHAT IS IN COURTS RIGHT
NOW, BEING LITIGATED IS THE
EFFORT TO IMPOSE NEW
REQUIREMENTS ON VOTER I.D.s.
>> REPRESENTATIVE LEWIS AS
SOMEONE WHO PRESUMABLY VOTED
FOR THAT LEGISLATION,
EXPLAIN WHY.
>> WELL, THANK YOU SO MUCH
FOR THE CHANCE TO BE WITH
YOU AND AS I HAVE SAID
REPEATEDLY DURING THE DEBATE
T HAS BEEN OUR GOAL TO MAKE
SURE THAT EVERY PERSON WHO
IS ELIGIBLE TO VOTE IS FULLY
ABLE TO VOTE AND ENCOURAGED
TO DO SO.
WE FELT LIKE THAT THERE WERE
SOME ADDITIONAL PROCEDURES,
SOME COMMON SENSE THINGS
THAT NEEDED TO BE PASSED TO
IMPROVE THE OVERALL
INTEGRITY OF THE PROCESS, TO
MAKE SURE THAT EVERYONE WHO
WANTED TO VOTE WAS ABLE TO
VOTE AND THAT THOSE VOTES
CUM LATIFLY DETERMINED WHO
WINS AND WHO LOSES
ELECTIONS.
>> AS YOU PROBABLY ARE AWAY,
PRESIDENT OBAMA AND ATTORNEY
GENERAL HOLDER, EVEN FORMER
PRESIDENT CLINTON SPOKE IN
THE LAST COUPLE OF WEEKS
SAYING IT THIS WAS A SETBACK
FOR VOTING RIGHTS.
WHAT IS YOUR RESPONSE TO?
>> I WOULD HAVE TO
RESPECTFULLY DISAGREE.
AS I HAVE SAID ALL ALONG IT
IS OUR INTENT THAT EVERYONE
WHO IS ELIGIBLE TO VOTE BE
ABLE TO GO TO THE BALLOT BOX
AND EXERCISE THEIR SACRED
RIGHT TO PARTICIPATE.
BUT IT'S IMPORTANT TO POINT
OUT THAT IF WE DON'T HAVE
LOGICAL SAFEGUARDS, LIKE THE
PROFESSOR POINTED OUT IN HIS
OPENING REMARKS, THAT WE NO
LONGER HAVE SAME-DAY
LEGISLATION.
WELL, THE REASON WE DON'T IS
TAOS THERE WAS NO WAY TO
HAVE ENOUGH TIME TO DO THE
MAIL VERIFICATION PROCESS TO
MAKE SURE THAT SOMEONE WHO
REGISTERS AND VOTES ON THE
SAME DAY IS, IN FACT,
ENTITLE VOTE.
SO THE ELECTION WOULD BE
OVER, THE ELECTION RESULTS
WOULD BE IN, AND THEN WE
FIND OUT THAT PERHAPS THIS
PERSON SHOULDN'T HAVE BEEN
ABLE TO VOTE AT ALL.
SO I WOULD RESPECTFULLY SAY
THAT I THINK A LOT OF THE
NOISE OUT OF THE LEFT RIGHT
NOW ON VOTING RIGHTS IS MORE
OF A POLITICAL ISSUE MEANT
TO ENERGIZE THEIR BASE AND
TO AGITATE, MAYBE EVEN TO
SCARE SOME FOLKS.
CERTAINLY IT IS OUR INTENT
AS I SAID ALL ALONG THAT
EVERYONE BE ENTITLED TO VOTE
WHO WANTS TO DO SO.
>> LET ME ASK PROFESSOR
CRAYTON TO RESPOND.
THERE IS A LOT TO RESPOND
TO.
TAKE YOUR PICK.
>> I THINK EVERYONE WHO IS
ENTITLED TO VOTE, EVERY
CITIZEN IN THE STATE OF
NORTH CAROLINA HAS BEEN
ENTITLED TO HAVE THE RIGHT
TO VOTE.
AND IT SHOULDN'T BE
LIMITED-- IT SEEMS TO ME,
THE COURT DECISIONS HAVE
SUPPORTED THIS VIEW UNLESS
THEY'RE REALLY SIGNIFICANT
ISSUES OR RATIONALS ON THE
OTHER SIDE.
I THINK THE PROBLEM REALLY
IS REFLECTED IN THE
LEGISLATURE OMNIBUS BILL IS
THAT SOME OF IT DOESN'T
REALLY FIT THE EVIDENCE THAT
IS ON THE RECORD AS TO WHAT
THE PROBLEM IS THEY'RE
TRYING TO SOLVE.
NOT REALLY A GREAT DEAL OF
EVIDENCE AT ALL OF THE KIND
OF CORRUPTION OR FRAUD THAT
SEEMINGLY IS MOTIVATING THE
LEGISLATURE.
BUT I THINK THE OTHER THING
ABOUT COMMON SENSE THAT THE
REPRESENTATIVE RAISES, I
THINK EVERYBODY THAT LIKES
TO ENCOURAGE DECISIONS THAT
ARE REFLECTING COMMON SENSE
VALUES.
BUT WHEN A VOTER I.D. BILL,
FOR EXAMPLE, SAYS WE WANT
YOU TO SHOW VALID PHOTO I.D.,
THAT THEY DON'T PERMIT, SAY,
AT THE UNIVERSITY OF NORTH
CAROLINA WHERE I WORK, A
STUDENT WHO HAS VOTER I.D.
BUT SHOWS HIS PICTURE AND
WHO HE ISS, THAT IS NOT
COMMIT PERMITTED TO BE USED
IN THE VOTING POLLS IF SEEMS
TO BE NOT REALLY REFLECTIVE
OF THE COMMON SENSE THAT I
THINK MOST NORTH CARLINIANS
EXPECT.
>> Ifill: SO WHAT DO YOU
THINK IS THE MOTIVATING
FORCE BEHIND THESE LAWS?
>> WELL SOME OF IT, OF
COURSE, IS, YOU KNOW, I
THINK MOST PEOPLE RECOGNIZE
THE REPUBLICANS ARE TAKE
OVER THE LEGISLATURE AND YOU
KNOW, JUST AS DEMOCRAT DOES
IN SOME CASE, THEY WANT TO
HAVE STRUCTURAL OPTIONS THAT
MAKE IT MORE LIKELY THAT
THEIR VOTERS COME OUT AND
OTHERS THAT DON'T.
BUT I THINK THE OTHER
ELEMENT OF THIS THAT IS
TROUBLING, MORE TROUBLING TO
ME, FRANKLY, WHEN THERE IS
EVIDENCE THAT THERE ARE
DISPARATE LEVELS OF ACCESS
TO THE BALLOTS BY HAVING
SOME OF THESE RULES IN PLACE,
PARTICULARLY DISPARRATE
LEVELS WITH RESPECT TO RACE
WHERE AFRICAN-AMERICANS ARE
LESS LIKELY TO BE ABLE TO
GET ACCESS TO THE BALLOT
BECAUSE THEY'VE USED EARLY
VOTING IN THE PAST, WHEN YOU
PUT THOSE IN THE PLACE THAT
MAKE THAT LESS AVAILABLE T
CREATES PROBLEMS THAT I
THINK REQUIRE GREATER
ATTENTION.
AND THE VOTING RIGHTS ACT
MADE LEGISLATURES PAY CLOSER
ATTENTION TO IT WITHOUT
HAVING SUCH-- REVIEW IN
PLACE, WE NOW HAVE TO
LITIGATE IN ORDER TO GET
THAT ATTENTION.
>> Ifill: REPRESENTATIVE
LEWIS, THAT IS A LOT ON YOUR
PLATE NOW.
HE TALKED ABOUT RACE.
HE TALKED ABOUT FAIRNESS, HE
TALKED ABOUT PARTISANSHIP.
HOW MUCH DO ANY OF THOSE
THINGS PLAY A ROLE IN THIS
DEBATE?
>> WELL, AS THE PROFESSOR
KNOWS, WHY YES, CITIZENSHIP
IS THE THRESHOLD THAT MUST
BE MET IN ORDER TO BE ABLE
TO VOTE.
SO THE COURTS HAVE RULED
THAT THINGS LIKE REQUIRING
VOTER REGISTRATION ARE IN NO
WAY AN IMPEDIMENT TO BEING
ABLE TO EXERCISE THAT RIGHT.
AND AS FAR AS THE NUMBER OF
DAYS THAT ARE ALLOWED FOR
EARLY VOTING, I WOULD
ENCOURAGE THE PROFESSOR AND
ALL OF YOUR VIEWERS TO LOOK
COUNTRY AT THE
AVERAGE NUMBER OF DAYSWILL YOU T
STATES ACROSS THE COUNTRY
HAVE EIGHT DAYS, NORTH
CAROLINA HAS TEN.
WE ALSO PASSED LANGUAGE IN
THE LEGISLATE THAT SAID WE
HAD THE SAME NUMBER OF HOURS
IN WHICH THAT THE VOTER KOS
GO TO THE POLLS AND EXERCISE
THEIR RIGHT.
THE THOUGHTS WERE COMPAQLY
LIKE IN MY OWN HOME COUNTY,
THAT MORE ONE STOP SITES
WOULD BE OPENED UP IN ORDER
TO MEET THAT.
SO THAT THE PERSON WHO WAKES
UP EARLY IN THE MORNING AND
GETS THEIR KIDS READY FOR
SKOL AND GOES TO WORK AND
WORKS ALL DAY AND PICKS THE
KIDS UP FROM DAY CARE AND
HAS JUST ENOUGH TIME TO GET
HOME AND-- .
>> Ifill: BUT LET ME ASK YOU
THIS.
IS IT FIXING A PROBLEM THAT
YOU HAVE EVIDENCE THAT FIXED
A PROBLEM THAT EXISTED?
>> WELL, WE DEFINITELY HAVE
EVIDENCE AS I SAID THAT SOME
FOLKS THAT REGISTERED TO
1R0E9 ON THE SAME DAY WERE
NEVER ABLE TO BE VERIFIED.
WE DON'T KNOW IF THEY WERE
ACTUALLY ELIGIBLE TO VOTE OR
NOT.
WE THINK IT DOES MAKE SENSE
TO PRESENT A PHOTO I.D. THAT
THE PHOTO MATCHES THE NAME
TO SAY WHO YOU SAY YOU ARE.
THE PROFESSOR REFERENCED
STUDENT I.D..
DOESN'T MAKE SENSE THAT IF
ARE YOU GOING ATTEST AS A
CONSTITUTION OF TRT CAROLINA
CALL FORCE THAT YOU ARE A
RES DENT THE STATE THAT YOU
WOULD HAVE TAKEN TIME TO
HAVE GONE TO THE DMV AND TO
GET YOUR DRIVER'S LICENSE OR
TO GET YOUR NONOPERATOR ITS
LICENCE F THIS IS TRUE, THIS
IS THE GNOME WHICH ARE YOU
GOING TO EXERCISE THAT
PRECIOUS RIGHT TO VOTE,
CERTAINLY BEING ABLE TO
OBTAIN AN I.D. AT NO DIRECT
COST TO YOU CAN'T BE
CONSIDERED AN IMPEDIMENT TO
VOTING.
>> WELL THIS SOUNDS LIKE
THIS IS AN ISSUE THAT THE
ADMINISTRATION IS CERTAINLY
NOT GOING TO GIVE UP ON.
AND THE SUPREME COURT MAY
HAVE JUST TARTED THIS
ARGUMENT.
KAREEM CRAYTON FROM THE
UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA
AND DAVID LEWIS NORTH
CAROLINA HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES, THANK YOU
VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY TONIGHT,
REMEMBERING A FIGHTER WHOSE
BATTLE FOR JUSTICE BECAME HIS
TOUCHSTONE.
AND BACK TO JEFF FOR THAT STORY.
>> THERE'S THE BELL IN ROUND
TWO.
>> Brown: MIDDLEWEIGHT-
PRIZEFIGHTER RUBIN CARTER
KNOCKED OUT 19 OPPONENTS IN THE
EARLY 1960S, EARNING THE
NICKNAME "HURRICANE."
BUT HIS BOXING CAREER CAME TO AN
ABRUPT END IN 1967,  WHEN AN
ALL-WHITE JURY IN NEW JERSEY
CONVICTED HIM OF A TRIPLE MURDER
IN A PATTERSON BAR.
19 YEARS AFTER HIS IMPRISONMENT,
A FEDERAL JUDGE DISMISSED THE
CHARGES AND FREED CARTER, CITING
A RACIST PROSECUTION.
>> THEY SENTENCED ME TO A LIFE
OF LIVING DEATH, AND THERE WAS
NO OTHER WAY TO DESCRIBE THE
NATURE OF A PRISON.
PRISON DESTROYS EVERYTHING THAT
IS VALUABLE IN A HUMAN BEING.
IT DESTROYS FAMILY, IT DESTROYED
MINE.
IT DESTROYS ONE'S DIGNITY, AND
>> Ifill: WHILE IN PRISON,
CARTER BECAME A SYMBOL OF RACIAL
INJUSTICE, HIS STORY MADE FAMOUS
BY A 1975 BOB DYLAN SONG.
HERE COMES THE STORY OF THE
HURRICANE
THE MAN THE AUTHORITIES CAME
TO BLAME
FOR SOMETHING THAT HE NEVER
DONE
>> Ifill: HIS FIGHT FOR FREEDOM
WAS INTRODUCED TO A NEW
>> Ifill: IN HIS LATER YEARS,
CARTER FOUNDED AN ORGANIZATION,
"INNOCENCE INTERNATIONAL" TO
HELP PRISONERS IT CONSIDERED
WRONGLY-CONVICTED.
HE WROTE A RECENT OP-ED IN THE
NEW YORK DAILY NEWS ON BEHALF OF
ONE SUCH PRISONER.
OF HIS OWN LIFE, HE WROTE:
>> Brown: RUBIN CARTER DIED FROM
PROSTATE CANCER AT HIS HOME IN
TORONTO.
HE WAS 76 YEARS OLD.
>> Brown: SELWYN RAAB WAS AN
INVESTIGATIVE REPORTER FOR THE
NEW YORK TIMES WHO COVERED RUBIN
CARTER FOR 30 YEARS.
HIS REPORTING IN THE SEVENTIES
HELPED EVENTUALLY PROVE CARTER'S
INNOCENCE.
THANKS FOR JOINING ME.
FYKE TAKE US BACK TO THATE IN T.
HOW DID THIS BECOME SUCH A
MAJOR CAUSE THAT ENGAGED SO
MANY PEOPLE?
>> THE IMPORTANCE OF RUBIN
CARTER'S CASE IS THAT IT
SPOTLIGHTED HOW EXTENSIVE
RACIAL PREJUDICE WAS IN THE
CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM.
AND IT OCCURRED AT A TIME
WHEN THERE WERE WIDE SPREAD
CIVIL UNREST THROUGHOUT THE
NATION.
AND THIS CASE DIDN'T OCCUR
IN THE BASTIONS OF THE SOUTH
WHERE ALL THIS
ANTI-INTEGRATION FIGHTS IT
OCCURRED PRESUMABLY AND
SUPPOSEDLY IN THE NORTH N
NEW JERSEY.
BRIDGE INRT HOP OVER THE
THE SUBURB OF NEW YORK SO
THAT ATTRACTED A LOT OF
ATTENTION.
FURTHER FURTHER MORE CARTER
BECAUSE OF HIS CELEBRITY AS
A WELL-KNOWN BOXER ALMOST
WON THE MIDDLE A
CHAMPIONSHIP, HE ATTRACTED A
LOT OF ATTENTION.
ATTENTION FROM OTHER BOXERS
LIKE MUHAMMED ALI, A LOT OF
SHOW BUSINESSPEOPLE LIKE BOB
DYLAN, SO YOU JUST COULDN'T
BURY THIS CASE.
>> Brown: YOU MET HIM BACK
THEN.
TELL US A LITTLE ABOUT HIM
DURING THAT TIME AND WHAT
HAPPENED WHEN HE WAS CONVICTED.
>> WELL, EVEN THOUGH HE HAD
THIS REPUTATION OF BEING A
FEROCIOUS BOXER AND A
RADICAL MILITANT, HE WAS A
VERY SOFT-SPOKEN, WELL
THOUGHT, WELL ARTICULATED,
CHARISMATIC CHARACTER.
AND THERE WAS NEVER A SIGN
OF BITTERNESS OUT OF HIM,
EVEN THOUGH ALL OF THE
TROUBLE THAT HE HAD GONE
THROUGH AND THE IDEA THAT HE
HAD BEEN SENTENCED TO LIFE
IN PRISONMENT, VERY
WELL-SPOKEN, VERY WELL-READ,
SELF-EDUCATED.
SOMEBODY WHO KNEW WHAT HE
WANTED TO DO AND HOW TO
ACCOMPLISH IT.
>> Brown: AND HE SET HIS OWN
TERMS IN PRISON, DIDN'T HE.
THE WAY HE SERVED HIS TIME.
>> YEAH, THE FIRST THING HE
SAID TO ME WAS THEY CAN
IMPRISON MY BODY BUT THEY'LL
NEVER IMPRISON MY MIND.
AND HE FELT IF HE HAD EVER
AGREED AND KPORTED WITH THE
INSTITUTIONAL REGULATIONS,
THAT WOULD BE EVIDENCE OF
HIS GUILT SO WHAT HE DID WAS
HE STAYED BY HIMSELF MOST OF
THE TIME, READING AND
THINKING.
AND AT THE SAME TIME WE NOT
EAT IN THE PRISON
LUNCHROOMS.
HE HAD SMALL BAND OF
SUPPORTERS WHO BROUGHT HIM
IN CANNED FOOD AND SOUP AND
HE HAD AN ELECTRIC COIL.
AND HE WOULD NEVER COMPLY.
THEY ASKED HIM TO TEACH
BOXING.
THEY ASKED HIM TO
PARTICIPATE IN BOXING
MATCHES.
AND TO THAT, TO HIM THAT
WOULD HAVE BEEN AN
INDICATION THAT HE WAS
GUILTY.
AND SO HE NEVER DID THAT.
HE WAS ALWAYS HIS OWN MAN.
>> Brown: A LOT OF
COMPLICATIONS TO THIS STORY
THAT WE CAN'T WALK ALL
THROUGH THE DETAILS.
BUT JUST REMIND US, THE
FEDERAL JUDGE WHEN HE
THROUGH THIS OUT, WHAT WAS
HE SAYING IN ESSENCE THAT
HAD HAPPENED IN THE
PROSECUTION.
>> WELL, THE FEDERAL JUDGE
SAID THAT RUBIN CARTER AND
HIS CODEFENDANT JOHN ARTIS,
THE FORGOTTEN MAN IN THIS
STORY HAD BEEN FRAMED NOT
ONCE BUT TWICE.
AT BOTH TRIALS, AT THE TWO
TRIALS THAT HE UNDERWENT,
THE FIRST TRIAL THERE WAS
A-- JURY AND THERE AS RACIAL
PREJUDICE AND PERJURY
AGAINST THE TWO MAIN
WITNESSES.
AT THE SECOND TRIAL THEY
INTRODUCED A RACIAL MOTIVE
WITHOUT ANY EVIDENCE AND
THEY ALSO WITHHELD AGAIN
IMPORTANT EVIDENCE THAT
WOULD HAVE CLEARED CARTER
AND ARTIS ABOUT THE MAIN
WITNESS AGAINST THEM.
SO BOTH TIMES HE WAS CON BE
FRONTED BY THIS KIND OF
SITUATION WHERE PROSECUTOR
WAS GO TO ALMOST ANY LENGTH
TO CONVICT HIM.
>> Brown: AND VERY BRIEFLY
WE MENTIONED THAT RIGHT UP
TO THE END HE HAD FOUNDED AN
ORGANIZATION SO HE STAYED
WITH THIS ISSUE UNTIL THE
END.
>> YEAH, HE NEVER FORGOT THE
OTHER PEOPLE WHO WERE IN
PRISON.
SO THAT WAS REALLY THE CALLS
FORTH REST OF HIS LIFE AFTER
HE GOT OUT OF PRISON.
AND HE DEDICATED HIMSELF TO
THAT.
SO IT IS ANOTHER EXAMPLE OF
HOW HE WAS FORTHRIGHT AND HE
WASN'T TOTALLY SELFISH.
AND HE WAS ALWAYS WORRIED,
ALWAYS TALKING ABOUT THE
OTHER INMATES.
HE KNEW THERE WERE MANY OF
HIM WHO HAD BEEN CONVICTED
WRONGLY.
NOW OF COURSE THERE WERE
PLENTY OF PEOPLE WHO SAY
THEY HAVE BEEN RAILROADED.
CARTER KNEW ABOUT THAT BUT
HE MADE SURE THAT HE WASN'T
GOING TO BE RAILROADED.
>> Brown: ON THE LIFE OF
RUBIN CARTER, THANKS SOP
MUCH.
>> MY PLEASURE.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
NEARLY 36,000 RUNNERS TOOK PART
IN THE BOSTON MARATHON, A YEAR
AFTER BOMBS AT THE FINISH LINE
KILLED THREE PEOPLE.
AND SOUTH KOREAN TEAMS PULLED
MORE BODIES FROM A SUNKEN FERRY,
WITH MORE THAN 200 PEOPLE STILL
MISSING.
>> Ifill: ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE
RIGHT NOW, WHAT HAPPENS WHEN A
COUNTRY SAYS GOODBYE TO IT'S
PENNIES?
IT'S BEEN JUST OVER A YEAR SINCE
CANADA STOPPED MINTING IT'S ONE-
CENT COINS.
NOW COMES THE HARD PART:
COLLECTING AND RECYCLING ALL OF
THAT COPPER AND STEEL.
YOU CAN READ ABOUT THAT ON OUR
HOMEPAGE.
ALL WEEK LONG WE'LL BE FOCUSING
ON ANY NUMBER OF ITEMS, FROM
PENNIES TO MICROBES TO CURSIVE
WRITING, REMEMBER THAT, THAT ARE
ALSO GOING "EXTINCT."
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
>> Woodruff: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON TUESDAY, SCIENTISTS TRY TO
BRING EXTINCT SPECIES, LIKE THE
WOOLY MAMMOTH, BACK TO LIFE.
PLUS, THE SUPREME COURT HEARS
ARGUMENTS IN A CASE THAT COULD
DETERMINE THE FUTURE OF T.V.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.